samples: net: add mutual DTLS to download and coap_client (#30295)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/net/download/README.rst

Next, if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CERT` is set, it provisions a certificate to the device if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_SECURE_SOCKET` option is set.
When using an nRF91 Series device, the provisioning of the certificates must be done before connecting to the LTE network since the certificates can only be provisioned when the device is not connected.
The certificate file name and security tag can be configured using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_SEC_TAG` and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CERT_FILE` options, respectively.

The sample then performs the following actions:

1. Establishes a connection to the network
#. Optionally sets up the secure socket options
#. Uses the :ref:`lib_downloader` library to download a file.

Selecting the HTTP(S) or CoAP(S) transport
===========================================

The :ref:`lib_downloader` library supports both HTTP(S) and CoAP(S), and this sample builds in support for both (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_TRANSPORT_HTTP` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_TRANSPORT_COAP`, together with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COAP`).

> No separate build-time choice is needed to pick between them: the transport is selected automatically at runtime from the scheme of the URL being downloaded (``http://`` or ``https://`` for HTTP(S), ``coap://`` or ``coaps://`` for CoAP(S)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No separate build-time choice is needed to pick between them.
The transport is selected automatically at runtime from the scheme of the URL being downloaded (``http://`` or ``https://`` for HTTP(S), ``coap://`` or ``coaps://`` for CoAP(S)).
```

Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_FILE_URL` (with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_FILE_CUSTOM` selected) to a URL with the appropriate scheme to exercise either transport and security level.

Using TLS and DTLS
==================

By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CERT` option is set, which means that the sample provisions the certificate found in the :file:`samples/net/download/cert` folder.

> The certificate file name is indicated by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CERT_FILE` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CERT_FILE` option indicates the certificate file name.
```

This certificate will work for the default test files.
If you are using a custom download test file, you must provision the correct certificate for the servers from which the certificates will be downloaded.

|hex_format|

See :ref:`cert_dwload` for more information.

.. _download_sample_mtls:

Mutual TLS (client certificate authentication)
----------------------------------------------

For scenarios that require client authentication (mutual TLS), enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CLIENT_CERT` option.
This provisions a client certificate and private key, in addition to the CA certificate, under the same security tag.

> Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CLIENT_CERT_FILE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CLIENT_KEY_FILE` to the client certificate and private key to provision, matching what the server you connect to expects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CLIENT_CERT_FILE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CLIENT_KEY_FILE` to the client certificate and private key to provision.
This must match what the server you connect to expects.
```

Overview
********

The sample first initializes the device (:ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem` and AT communications for cellular devices).

> Next, if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CERT` is set, it provisions a certificate to the device if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_SECURE_SOCKET` option is set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, if the :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CERT` is set, it provisions a certificate to the device if the :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_SECURE_SOCKET` option is set.
```

When using an nRF91 Series device, the provisioning of the certificates must be done before connecting to the LTE network since the certificates can only be provisioned when the device is not connected.

> The certificate file name and security tag can be configured using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_SEC_TAG` and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CERT_FILE` options, respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The certificate file name and security tag can be configured using the :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_SEC_TAG` and the :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CERT_FILE` options, respectively.
```

The sample then performs the following actions:

1. Establishes a connection to the network
#. Optionally sets up the secure socket options
#. Uses the :ref:`lib_downloader` library to download a file.

Selecting the HTTP(S) or CoAP(S) transport
===========================================

The :ref:`lib_downloader` library supports both HTTP(S) and CoAP(S), and this sample builds in support for both (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_TRANSPORT_HTTP` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_TRANSPORT_COAP`, together with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COAP`).
No separate build-time choice is needed to pick between them.
The transport is selected automatically at runtime from the scheme of the URL being downloaded (``http://`` or ``https://`` for HTTP(S), ``coap://`` or ``coaps://`` for CoAP(S)).

> Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_FILE_URL` (with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_FILE_CUSTOM` selected) to a URL with the appropriate scheme to exercise either transport and security level.

Reviewer 3: This change (`CONFIG_COAP=y`) needs to go to release notes as a behavioral change. It could also go into a separate commit unless I misunderstand it.

> Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_FILE_URL` (with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_FILE_CUSTOM` selected) to a URL with the appropriate scheme to exercise either transport and security level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_FILE_URL` (with :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_FILE_CUSTOM` selected) to a URL with the appropriate scheme to exercise either transport or security level.
```

Using TLS and DTLS
==================

By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CERT` option is set, which means that the sample provisions the certificate found in the :file:`samples/net/download/cert` folder.

> The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CERT_FILE` option indicates the certificate file name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CERT` option is set, which means that the sample provisions the certificate found in the :file:`samples/net/download/cert` folder.
The :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CERT_FILE` option indicates the certificate file name.
```

This certificate will work for the default test files.
If you are using a custom download test file, you must provision the correct certificate for the servers from which the certificates will be downloaded.

|hex_format|

See :ref:`cert_dwload` for more information.

.. _download_sample_mtls:

> Mutual TLS (client certificate authentication)

Reviewer 3: Add a note that this is only supported by Wi-Fi?

Reviewer 2: Is an note needed for download sample as well?

----------------------------------------------

> For scenarios that require client authentication (mutual TLS), enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CLIENT_CERT` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For scenarios that require client authentication (mutual TLS), enable the :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_PROVISION_CLIENT_CERT` option.
```

This provisions a client certificate and private key, in addition to the CA certificate, under the same security tag.

> Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CLIENT_CERT_FILE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CLIENT_KEY_FILE` to the client certificate and private key to provision.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CLIENT_CERT_FILE` and :option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_CLIENT_KEY_FILE` to the client certificate and private key to provision.
```

This must match what the server you connect to expects.

The sample includes an example client certificate and private key, together with a matching CA trust store, under :file:`cert/`, for use against the `Eclipse Californium`_ CoAP interop server:

* :file:`cert/cf-ca.pem` — CA trust store (root + intermediate)
* :file:`cert/cf-client.pem` — client leaf certificate

> * :file:`cert/cf-client-key.pem` — client private key (EC P-256)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :file:`cert/cf-ca.pem` - CA trust store (root + intermediate)
* :file:`cert/cf-client.pem` - Client leaf certificate
* :file:`cert/cf-client-key.pem` - Client private key (EC P-256)
```

The :file:`dtls-test.conf` extra-conf file configures the sample to use these to perform a mutual TLS DTLS download from the Californium interop server.

> .. _Eclipse Californium: https://github.com/eclipse-californium/californium

Reviewer 2: Please add this as well to the link.txt file.

Wi-Fi
=====

On Wi-Fi boards, networking and TLS/DTLS support are not part of the default configuration and must be added with the :file:`wifi.conf` extra-conf file, using the ``download_EXTRA_CONF_FILE`` sysbuild variable.

For example, to build for the nRF7120 DK using the default HTTPS test file::

   west build -p -b nrf7120dk/nrf7120/cpuapp/ns --sysbuild samples/net/download -- \
     -Ddownload_EXTRA_CONF_FILE="wifi.conf"

> To instead perform a mutual TLS DTLS download from the Californium interop server (see :ref:`Mutual TLS (client certificate authentication) <download_sample_mtls>` above), add the :file:`dtls-test.conf` extra-conf file on top of :file:`wifi.conf`::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To perform a mutual TLS DTLS download from the Californium interop server (see :ref:`Mutual TLS (client certificate authentication) <download_sample_mtls>`), add the :file:`dtls-test.conf` extra-conf file on top of :file:`wifi.conf`::
```
